{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\info
{\author Daniel Tranchina}
{\*\company New York University}}\vieww14700\viewh15180\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\i\fs24 \cf0 I think it might be good for us to clear up a confusion about the relationship between the time constant of decay of the tail of the phototresponse and the lifetime of R*. Burns and Pugh and many others think that they are one and the same. This is why many are hot and bothered by your papers in which R* decay is slower than they imagine. Of course, the time constant of the tail only represents the lifetime of the longest lived R* state in the context of the multi-state shutoff model. Even if the lifetimes of the various states increase systematically from first to last, there is no inconsistency between a long-lived R* and a short time constant (e.g.70 ms) for the decay of the tail. I fear that may readers will go off thinking on the wrong track and be refractory to our scholarly analysis if we don\'92t set them straight early on.\
\

\i0 Good point - we are forcing fit to average response, so we are getting tail exactly right by definition.  Make this explicit early on, along with some discussion of the issue.  \

\i \
On p. 6 where a likelihood approach is described, are the parameters of the model chosen to maximize the likelihood? Also, isn\'92t it necessary to constrain the waveform itself in some way? I believe that what is described assumes that the characteristic feature parameters (e.g. width of the variance) are independent Gaussian random variables. If so, this should be stated.\
\

\i0 Make clearer we are chosing a specific instantiation of a given model, evaluating likelihood, and repeating across a broad range of parameter settings for a given model to maximize likelihood.  Also yes - assumption is that the properties of the single photon response are independent and Gaussian.  Could check this or could do fitting differently - i.e. given a set of single photon response parameters, evaluate likelihood given empirically-determined distributions from many runs of model.  \

\i \
Also on p. 6, in section 2.4, I think it is giving Bisegna et al. too much credit to say that they suggested that local depletion of cGMP is the key. As far as I know, they have always spoken in terms of diffusion smoothing out noise, and they don\'92t understand their own model.\
\

\i0 Ok - careful here.\

\i \
On p. 7, N is the total number of shutoff steps for R* (Eq. 9).  N is not described correctly just above the equation.\
\

\i0 Fix this - there are issues with N throughout because need to be better about number of transducins and number of steps in rhodopsin inactivation.\

\i \
In Fig. 4, the GRK+/- trace seems to be missing. I guess the predicted and measured are one and the same in this case. This could be confusing for the reader.\
\

\i0 Play with fig - it is identical to the prediction.\

\i \
It occurs to me that we could perform the same analysis on my Caruso model, making believe that my model responses are real rod responses.\
\

\i0 It would be great to do the full likelihood stuff with that model - perhaps over a limited set of parameters based on a more exhaustive search using the other model.\

\i \
On p. 10, what do you mean by the dominant time constant for the decay of light activated PDE activity? How is this measured or inferred?\
\

\i0 By dominant time constant I mean the time constant measured using the Pepperberg approach.  \

\i \
I have some ideas about your questions posed on pp. 11-12. The RGS9 OX is an interesting idea. I agree with what you say in the context of the sort of nonlinearity you are assuming. I think that in the Caruso model, the CV_area might go up in the RGS9OX because more of the response, so to speak, occurs at early times when PDE* is more localized and cGMP is more depleted locally. I\'92m not sure about this or about how the waveform might change.  Let\'92s see; I\'92ll do the simulations. I imagine that there are no data on the CV_area in the RGS9 OX because the SPRs are even smaller than WT?\
\
If we do include analysis of GCAPS-/- don\'92t we have to model the feedback explicitly? This involves making a choice for the Hill coefficient discussed above. We can certainly do this. It is a parameter in my explicit biochemical kinetic model, so it is no problem for the Caruso simulations.\
\

\i0 For analysis I have been doing, assuming linearity of the transduction cascade, it gets sucked up into the linear filter used to map rhodopsin's activity to the measured average single photon response.  \

\i \
The likelihood analysis is fabulous. I have a few questions.  On p.12, it is not clear what tau_Rh is. Is this the mean of the total lifetime of Rh* (i.e. the sum of the lifetimes of the various states), or is it the mean lifetime of one of the states? Also, is the catalytic activity of RH* being ratcheted down for each step towards final shutoff. A related question is, what does alpha signify exactly. I don\'92t find the definition clear.\
\

\i0 Clarify these.  Probably need figure showing alpha - it is how much each step decreases rhodopsin's activity (0 means the activity does not decline until final step, 1/N means equal decline in activity for each step).  Tau_Rh is probably not the right term - think about this.  We need to set an overall time scale for rhodopsin inactivation - that is the function of that parameter.  It roughly maps onto a time constant.  \

\i \
I\'92ll do some simulations with my Caruso model soon. These will help us decide how to handle that model in our paper.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 I'm pretty sure that transducin compression is not the same\
kind of nonlinearity as the cGMP depletion nonlinearity in the Caruso et al. model.\
The Caruso model is a spatiotemporal model and cGMP depletion\
only occurs within the interdiscal space early in the response before\
PDE* has had a chance to spread out completely. I believe this is why\
the Caruso model can reproduce that GCAPs-/- responses\
(with a Hill coefficient of 4 for Ca feedback onto GC) and the responses of\
Arr-/- and RK-/-. I attached a few Powerpoint slide that I think I sent you\
already, just to remind you. A related finding that surprised me is that the reproducibility\
of WT and GCAPs-/- in the Caruso model are the same.\
\

\i0 Try two things here.  One, make compression sensitive to transducin activity rather than cumulative transducin activity.  Two, do likelihood analysis with Caruso model.\

\i \
I don't remember if I said this before or if we discussed it already,\
but I believe that slowing down the rate of decay of PDE* will\
increase the CV_area in the Caruso model because the late decaying\
PDE* is quite spread out over the disc, thus diminishing focal dpeletion of\
cGMP. I'll check this. If it is so, it could give us a handle on distinguishing\
the models.\
}